= FAQ

Q:: Is Ronin a Framework?
A:: Ronin is not a framework. Instead, we like to call it a Platform, since
    Ronin was designed for developing code on top of it. Besides,
    "framework" is totally the developer buzz-word of the 2000s.

Q:: How well documented is Ronin?
A:: Ronin has extensive RDoc documentation of it's API. Various Tutorials
    and HOWTOs are always in the works.

Q:: How readable is Ronin's code-base?
A:: Other projects have been criticized for having poor programming
    conventions or a lack of documentation. To avoid this, Ronin enforces a
    set of coding style guidelines to ensure that all source-code is clean
    and readable. The coding style guidelines can be reviewed here:
    http://ronin.rubyforge.org/style.html

Q:: Does Ronin have a test-suite so that I can ensure that Ronin is bug
    free?
A:: Yes, Ronin comes with extensive RSpec specification tests.

Q:: Ronin comes with code which can be used to scan for and exploit
    security vulnerabilities, aren't you making everyone less secure by
    doing so?
A:: Yeah, so? There are plenty of similar projects which are freely
    available on-line, that can be used to scan and exploit vulnerabilities.

Q:: By publishing a hacking tool, aren't you helping to support the
    TERRORISTS!!!1111oneoneone
A:: Technically we're helping everyone, since Ronin is freely available
    for download. What people choose to do with Ronin is their own ethical
    responsibility. If you are scared of Hackers or TERRORISTS, we suggest
    you help raise awareness of bad programming habits which helped to
    create all those vulnerabilities in the first place. Perhaps you could
    stand outside Computer Science departments holding up signs such as:

      "Parametrize your SQL data"

    Or the classic:

      "Don't use strcpy!"

Q:: Does Ronin ship with 0day?
A:: Ronin was never intended to ship with any built-in exploits or
    payloads. Ronin's design allows user to checkout various
    overlays of exploits, payloads and extensions. This design choice
    allows for users to selectively choose which overlay they want to
    use, update them when they like and possibly even create their own
    overlays.

Q:: What exactly are overlays?
A:: Overlays are directories which can contain objects (such as exploits or
    payloads) or extensions which can be used by Ronin. An overlay also
    contains a small XML file called <tt>ronin.xml</tt> which describes
    the overlay, it's authors and it's licensing.

Q:: How are overlays hosted?
A:: An overlay can be hosed on any Subversion (SVN), CVS, Git or Rsync
    server.

Q:: How can I install an Overlay?
A:: Simply pass the URL of the overlay to the +ronin+ +install+ sub-command.
    
      $ ronin install svn://www.example.com/overlay

    If you have previously checked out an overlay, then simply pass the
    path of the local overlay to the +ronin+ +add+ sub-command.

      $ ronin add path/to/local/overlay

Q:: Does Ronin have a GUI or Web-interface?
A:: Not currently. The developers of Ronin are considering creating a GUI
    using JRuby + Swing or possibly Shoes. A Web-interface would be possible
    once Merb becomes stable.

Q:: I don't know a lot of Ruby, is there a command-line interface to the
    various libraries of Ronin?
A:: Why yes. Ronin's design allows for the libraries of Ronin to add various
    sub-commands to the main +ronin+ command. To view all available commands
    simply run the following command:

      $ ronin help

    To view help information on a specific command:

      $ ronin help command_here

Q:: Does Ronin offer certification or special training courses?
A:: No, we're not that kind of project. Besides, you shouldn't need a
    certificate to feel good about yourself.

Q:: What is Ronin licensed under?
A:: GPL-2.

Q:: Can I include Ronin in my (companies) commercial product?
A:: No, you cannot. Ronin is licensed under the GPL-2 license.

Q:: But we are a struggling Information Security company, could we purchase
    the rights to Ronin?
A:: Go struggle somewhere else. No one is selling Ronin, we don't want to
    see it become another Nessus.

